[TEMPORARY NOTE: I splurged out this post this evening when I realized that it was January 31, that there was nothing in my site's Blog section for the past month, and that it would be a great idea to put out a blog post every month for some reason. Halfway through the post, I realized that it would be more of a hassle than a great idea, but by then I was halfway through and so I couldn't not post it. What this means is I'll be heavily editing this post over the next week or so and that henceforth, I'll be posting a similarly-lengthed post every month. You have been warned.]
I am Eugene Y. Q. Shen, and this is my first post.
I was born as 汪煜钦, or Wāng Yù Qīn, which according to Google Translate means "ooze glorious respect" or if you read it backwards, "royal brilliant expanse-of-water". Since neither of these describe me, and my dad later randomly decided to change his last name to my mom's 沈 (Shěn), and my multiethnic kindergarten classmates never could pronounce /y tɕʰin/ without turning it into /ju dʒin/, so I eventually became 沈煜钦, or Eugene Shen. According to Google Translate translating that into Chinese and back into English, Eugene Shen means "outstanding gold sink", which is fittingly my current occupation, i.e. a student at the University of British Columbia.
In a half-assed attempt to keep the "outstanding" and remove the "gold sink", I went "job hunting" last year, which meant sending my resume to every recruiter on Craigslist, Kijiji, WorkBC, and Monster.ca until somebody decided it was a great idea to hire a scrub fresh out of high school with no work experience and who could only work until September. Thankfully, since I never applied to any retail/McDonald's jobs, I never found any real 9-to-5 work and spent my summer in peace playing Nethack, although I did get a job offer from some pyramid scheme that targeted scrubs fresh out of high school with no work experience. I did however find an unpaid internship for a one-woman startup, which was interesting enough as a summer diversion and temporarily halted my mom's nonstop employment-related nagging. Anyway, the point of this digression is that she (my new boss) insisted I make a LinkedIn account, but when I saw just how many Eugene Shens there were―26, and one was a Harvard AB and MIT MBA―I knew that I needed some way for people to find me on the web and not Eugene Shen, Director of Coaching Analytics for the Baltimore Ravens. Since I actually legally changed my first name to Eugene (as opposed to keeping an English nickname and still having to write Yu Qin Shen on government exams, which I guess is an illegal change of name?), unlike basically all the other Chinese kids in my IB cohort, and since apparently, everybody in America has a middle name, even though I can count the number of middle-namers I know on one and a half hands (maybe nobody wants to tell me their middle name. Why would anybody tell me their middle name anyway), what better way to differentiate myself from the other 25 than to use my discarded Chinese name as my middle name?
So, I (illegally) became Eugene Y. Q. Shen. And this is my first post. My IB English teacher taught me that short repeated paragraphs are very dramatic and unify the text by making me make a presentation about how short repeated paragraphs are very dramatic and unify the text. Which is good, because my life is very dramatic, and I need to unify this post to prevent it from being a sequence of unrelated tweets. Also I should probably increase the SEO of my official site when people search "Eugene Y. Q. Shen", because somebody will someday, right? Please?
------------------------------------------
I am Eugene Y. Q. Shen, and I was born in Haikou, China in May of 1997.
The earliest memory I can remember is being lost. I think that's quite fitting, as the two things I do best are 1. not remembering and 2. being lost. I was old enough to walk, and my parents took me out to some festival or something in the evening. That was in Shanghai, where my mom's family lived, so it was hot and humid, like someone covered a warm blanket of jello over my skin, and also the air was made out of warm heavy jello, and also my legs because it was just so hard to move, probably because I was like 2 and also because there were like a billion people there and half of them were waving these glowsticks around cause it was Shanghai. One moment I was holding my parents' hands and super tired and then suddenly, I was alone! I was standing in the middle of this big concrete circle and after waiting for literally 10 hours (or maybe 10 minutes), nobody had come to pick me up, and I cried and cried and cried and then no, that's all I remember. Actually, there's one earlier memory I still remember from time to time, in my dreams. In that dream, my dad and I are in a school bus driving through a corn field and then he throws me out the window.
My family moved to Canada when I was 3: my mom, my dad, my brother, and me. This was back in the days of the one-child policy, which would usually mean that I shouldn't have been born, except I was born in China and my brother, older than me, was born in Texas. Maybe the Chinese government didn't know he existed. My mom was from some random rural village near Shanghai, and was the only person in her school accepted to any university. It might have helped that her dad, my grandpa, was a university professor in Shanghai before people, or the People's Republic, decided to kick university professors into random rural villages. On the other hand, my dad was from some random rural village near Wuhan, and as far as I know his family has always lived in random rural villages. I don't actually know much about my dad; I don't even know what his Chinese name is, since everybody just calls him "Old Two", as the second-oldest person in his little gang of buddies. I don't actually know much about my mom either. Actually, I know basically nothing about my parents since I never ask. Their birthdays change every year for some reason. It's weird.
Anyway, my parents met at some university somewhere (I don't know which, I told you I don't know anything). My mom decided to fly to America to eat burgers all day long, specifically Texas to eat cows and drill oil or whatever Texans do, specifically to the University of Houston to become <s>a NASA engineer</s> an econometrician. That's where my brother was born, in 1993, and that's when my mom decided taking care of my brother was more important than studying econometrics. <s>At least they weren't econoIMPERIALS AM I RIGHT??</s>
My mom had finished her Ph.D. and become a Houston-certified econometrician, so she decided to take a vacation to Hainan, the Hawaii of China, where I was born. If only she had stayed in Texas, then I could still be the President of the U. S. of A. instead of my stupid brother. But evidently, she had had more than enough of the heat, and when we again crossed the Pacific, it was to the North. My family moved to Canada in 2000, and we've stayed here ever since.
Except my brother, cause why stay in Canada when you could be an American?
------------------------------------------
I am Eugene Y. Q. Shen, and if I took a QQ test, I'd get 130% because Q____Q
After arriving in Canada and shuffling around various places, we settled down in some apartment next to Joyce Skytrain Station, before all the other apartments next to Joyce Skytrain Station sprang up, where in front of (behind?) our window we could see the new elementary school slowly being built up. Graham Bruce Annex, it was called, but when Graham Bruce decolonized it, it became the Collingwood Neighbourhood School. Remember, the only two things I can do are: 1. not remembering and 2. I forgot what the second thing was. I thought I could pack this post full of hilarious anecdotes and witty asides but obviously I've lost the knack, and also I don't remember anything to anecdote on. In particular, I don't remember anything about any of the students in my first elementary school. Thankfully, I've only met two purported elementary classmates of mine, and I've since learned that the proper response is to reply with, "That must have been my twin brother, Boogene Ben!" and not "Wow, that's so creepy, how can you even recognize me?"
I do remember that in kindergarten, while everybody else was counting pumpkin seeds by 2 or 3, I was counting pumpkin seeds by 9! And I do remember that in grade one, while everybody else was using castanets and rhythm sticks, I was playing the piano for the whole class! And in grade two, while everybody else was learning about the water cycle, I was learning about dinosaurs with a very nice lady who took me away from the class for two hours every other day. I must have been such a precocious little thing. The most important word I learned in Graham Bruce was 'supercalifragilisticexpialidocious', since the person who memorized the longest string of prepended nonsense would automatically be the coolest kid in our after-school program. Maybe I forgot everything else about my classmates because I had to make room in my mind for 'superdupermegahyperdeluxeultimateultrararedoubledonutdiptheresupercalifragilisticexpialidocious', which I somehow remember almost perfectly despite never having spoken or even thought about the word for the past decade. (There might have been something between 'rare' and 'double', if any of you Graham Bruce after-schoolers Class of 2005 are reading.)
In his last year of elementary school, after having gone to 5 different schools for whatever reason I don't know, my brother applied for a gifted education program, the Multi-Age Cluster Class. He easily got in, being naturally gifted with American citizenship, and was subsequently clustered in a multi-age class. To accomodate him, we, the entire family, moved right next to Tecumseh Elementary School. The next year, I applied and immediately got in too, to the surprise of all the applicants forced to take a battery of IQ, EQ, and QQ tests before even applying. Thanks to legacy admission, I'll never need to take a QQ test, ever!
------------------------------------------
I am Eugene Y. Q. Shen, and I started watching people play video games before it was cool.
In some apartment next to Joyce Skytrain Station, there lived a family of Shens, and in the storage closet next to the bathroom there was one computer between them four. It ran Windows 95 and there was only enough space among the piles of boxes for one chair, and my brother sat in that chair. While he played the coolest games we could get in 2005―some space racing game (like <a href="http://www.kongregate.com/games/player_03/run-3">Run 3</a>), some 3D breakout game, and the only game whose name I remember, <a href="http://download.cnet.com/3000-2097_4-10560309.html">Speedy Eggbert 2</a>―I crawled up behind him and watched, mesmerized by the deep strategy and incredible reflexes that video gaming required. Even when we got a SNES, I would only always be Player 2, never daring to game without my brother leading the way.
But when we moved to Tecumseh, we got a real house, a single-detached dwelling, with enough space to rent out the downstairs to two tenant families. With three rooms for four people, I could finally sleep on a real non-bunk bed, except there was nowhere else to squish our piano but in my room, which meant my new sleepy place was the loft bed over the piano. Nevertheless, I was a big kid by then, I didn't need to go to after-school programs anymore, and before my parents came home from work, while my brother was enjoying his shiny new high school laptop, I had that precious 90 minutes from 3:00 to 4:30 in which to experience the joy of MapleStory™. Even that was only after my brother had a 2nd job Cleric, and I still spent most of my time watching him play. But that's a story for another time...
Even without video games, my time at Tecumseh was probably, to date, the best time in my life. My teachers were the best teachers I've ever had, my friends were cool people I guess, and every day at school was filled with new and exciting activities, such as "Do a research project about an eminent person", "Do a research project about a science experiment", "Do a research project about something to do with Canada", and "Do a research project about whatever you like, it just has to be a research project and you just have to do it" every year for four years. I was studying Grade 7 math while I was still in Grade 4, and I was still studying from the same Grade 7 textbook in Grade 7. I learned everything about numbers and greetings and fruits in French every year and forgot everything every summer, except that one year where they couldn't find a substitute French teacher and so the sub taught us Spanish instead. I didn't have any English classes until Grade 7, when the teacher randomly decided to force everybody to read through a grammar textbook. Even now, I can vividly remember the time when we had to make arches out of sugar cubes because we were learning about Romans, the time when the new SMART Board™ our class had bought―the first in the school―inexplicably crashed on my head, the time when we went to camp except I didn't because I was in China for some reason, and the two times when we all had to dress up as the eminent people we had researched and go to the Vancouver Museum to be humiliated by the general public. Good times.
------------------------------------------
Now I'm in university. There's lots I skipped: all the hours and days I <s>wasted</s> judiciously spent on watching anime, the three years I spent writing a blog post every day on a blog with only 250k total views, and my experiences in Grade 10 through 12 suffering through the IB program. But those are all stories for another time, another more well-throught-out and unrushed post. On the other hand, since I actually remember nothing at all about Grade 8 and Grade 9, I'll just pretend those years didn't exist, and that nonexistent story will not be the subject for any other time or any other post. I really don't know how to end this, it's like 12:00 and I've been writing nonsense nonstop since dinner. If only I had a short repeated paragraph I can use to unify the text...
Oh. I am Eugene Y. Q. Shen, and this is my first post.
